== Introduction ==

''' @2012 I. Marfin '''   ''<Higgs DESY Group>''


There are a few examples of  MVA selection, placed in
               Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/bin
               Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/test

# '''TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA'''.cpp
# '''testMVA'''.cpp

== TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA == 

An example of how-to use '''MVAComputer''' (MVATrainer) to construct '' 'Control  (Signal-free)' '' region where Mjj templates are built later.

It's the part of HbbMSSM analysis of  ''<Higgs DESY Group>''.

All '''MVAComputer''' related code in  '''TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA''' is placed in 'workaround' tags 

       ///_MVA_BEGIN_
         ...
       ///_MVA_END_

=== What doest MVA do in TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA ? ===

There are actually two things which MVA does. 

# It makes mva selection ('''MVAComputer''') just after kinematical preselection. That means that all stuff (histograms filling, templates creation etc) is being done already in control region.
# It performs filling TTrees ('''MVATrainer''') for further MVA training. All trees are created after 'additional' preselecton:
* deltaR>1.0 preselection 
* btag of the first 3 jets, if samples are data
* trigger0 and trigger1 must be fired, if samples are data

It's important to know that the 'additional' preselecton doesn't affect all stuff like histograms filling, templates creation etc
Trees are being written in 'root' directory of the output file: '''TripleBtagAnalysis.root'''


=== How to run it ? ===

There are two ways of running  '''TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA'''.cpp

# Binary running
# script running in root (ala Rainer's starting method)

I strongly recommend you to use binary.


==== Binary running  ====

* Compile binary:
           cd src/Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/
           scramv1 b 
* Run binary:
           $CMSSW_BASE/bin/slc5_amd64_gcc462/TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA mvasettings=/Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/data/mvasettings.lst

==== script running in root (ala Rainer's starting method) ====
* go  to folder where rootlogon.C file is placed
           cd src/Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/test
* run root (use full path to script). $CMSSW_BASE/src/Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/data//mvasettings.lst will be read.
           root -l  $CMSSW_BASE/src/Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/bin/TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA.cpp+
* run root. "/bla/bla/bla/mvasettings.lst" will be read. It must be FileInPath format, for example: Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/data/mvasettings.lst
           root -l "$CMSSW_BASE/src/Analysis/HbbMSSMAnalysis/bin/TripleBtagAnalysis_MVA.cpp(\"/bla/bla/bla/mvasettings.lst\")+"



== testMVA ==

An example of pseudo-analysis. It can be used for testing purpose only.

== Contact ==

Igor Marfin <'''Igor.Marfin@desy.de'''>

